A State of Emptiness - COVID-19's Impact on UNL and Lincoln, NE
Powered by WordPress
Created by Shannyn McEntee. Special thanks to Dr. Adrian Wisnicki, Jessica Dussault, Ella Durham, and Abagail Jackowski for their valuable feedback.
This DH Publication aims to provide documentation and analysis of the impact of COVID-19 on the University of Nebraska and downtown Lincoln, NE.
University of Nebraska - Lincoln
COVID-19 has undoubtedly changed all of our lives but what exactly do those changes look like? What does an American university look like after implementing online classes, social distancing, and mask mandates? This project looks to answer those questions by providing detailed commentary and subsequent photo evidence. Such evidence is devised into a series of three reports. Report #1 provides commentary about the physical space of UNL and the observable impacts that it is having. Report #2 analyzes several different platforms that can be used in different DH projects, two of which are used for this publication. Finally, Report #3 consists of a series of images and meta data that work to provide evidence of the observations of the first report.
Report #1
Report #2
Report #3
DOwntown Lincoln, NE
Expanding on the observations of UNL City Campus, Report #4 provides written commentary on the status of Downtown Lincoln, focusing specifically on the Haymarket district. Report #6 provides images and metadata to support the claims of Report #4 and illustrates the striking change that the Haymarket has gone through since the breakout of COVID-19. Report #5 compares the functionality of Knight lab's Story Map with GeoJSON. You can view a Story Map of the images provided in Report #6 through a link on Report #5's page.
Report #4
Report #5
Report #6
DH CONTEXT ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Report #7 acknowledges the local history of this DH project, focusing on the indigenous peoples that once called Nebraska and specifically Lincoln, home. Report #8 acknowledges the contemporary contexts of DH, specifically the Black Lives Matter movement, and the implications that it has on the local community. Report #9 consists of a series of notes, acknowledging that every digital project goes through a life cycle, and that everything must come to an end, one way or another.
Report #7
Report #8
Report #9
PROCESS NARRATIVE
This Digital Humanities project started as a documentation of the impacts of COVID-19 on the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, specifically on the space of the city campus. The project first focused on my observations of campus and provided subsequent evidence for my claims including photos. These initial observations were also partnered with an analysis of certain DH tools such as WordPress (which I chose to house the overall project), Blogger, Omeka, and Flickr (which I used to house the photos and their metadata). The project then expanded to include the effects of COVID-19 on the entirety of downtown Lincoln. These additions followed a similar process as the first three reports. I added a new observation report focused on the Haymarket district of downtown and supplemented pictures in a separate report. I also provided an analysis of two more DH tools, one of which (StoryMap) is used to provide a linear narrative for the things I saw and photographed. The final additions to this project came in the form of acknowledging the different contexts that surround my work. My observations were all influenced by these contexts, even if they are not readily apparent. I added information about the history of the land that I made these observations and the people that once lived here. I also added information about the Black Lives Matter movement which is an ongoing influence on the country, Nebraska, and Lincoln. This movement and its history have had impacts on the social construction of the area and that influenced what I saw. Finally, I added notes about what the future of DH projects such as this one might look like. Through every series of edits, I restructured the design and navigation of the site, to keep the information accessible and the user experience clean. 
STARWARS MEETS CORONAVIRUS
Play the Game Here
My game reflects the pandemic by adding a new element each time one of the other characters is touched. I saw this as a comparison to another infection every time an infected person is touched but each time, it is something a little different. Sometimes the infection moves slow (the stormtroopers), sometimes fast (the mouse droids). Ultimately though, you have to adapt and overcome and prevent any further infection by "removing" (that sounds terrible here but that's what happens in the game) all of the infected party. The infection starts with a patient 0, the first obstacle you touch. How precise and careful you move from there will dictate how quickly the infection will be over. If you are reckless, it will take a while. If you are careful, it can be over sooner. The more things you touch, the more infection there is, which remains true with COVID-19 right now.