Following the killing of George Floyd by Minnesota police on May 25, 2020, Nebraska joined over 2,000 U.S. cities and over 60 countries in protesting his death and supporting the Black Lives Matter movement. Cities all across the state of Nebraska actively participated in support of BLM. These cities include: Alliance, Ashland, Bellevue, Chadron, Columbus, Grand Island, Harvard, Hastings, Kearney, Lincoln, Norfolk, North Platte, Oakland, Omaha, Scottsbluff, Wayne, and York (“George Floyd Protests in Nebraska” 2020).  Since May of 2020, the city of Omaha has also seen 2 additional protests speaking out against the killings of James Scurlock and Kenneth Jones. The capital city and home to the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, has been at the heart of BLM advocacy since the beginning and continues to today. In an effort to preserve the history that is being made, the Nebraska History Museum in Lincoln has started a Black Lives Matter protest collection. The curators aim to document the events happening now so they can be seen and appreciated for decades, if not centuries, to come. The museum is searching for donations and considers nothing too small. “While it can be hard to spot history when you're living it, people like Miller remind us that something as simple as a piece of cardboard can represent history” (Bischof 2020). Additionally, the Nebraska History Museum aims to ensure that everyone’s perspective is shared, “She said they're working really hard to ensure they're showing this movement from the perspective of everyone, the black men and women fighting for their rights, the police who are doing their jobs and those who joined in on the movement to show their support” (Bischof 2020). Beyond the Nebraska History Museum, Black Lives Matter has been an integral part of UNL. Back in 2016, BLM co-founder, Alicia Garza came and spoke to students on the campus. Her message moved the hearts of those at UNL, “Garza said the strength of Black Lives Matter, drawn from the determination and complexity of black, white, Asian, Latino and other students like those at UNL, will carry the movement” (Dunker 2016). The words of Garza have continued to inspire students through the tumultuous events that faced the Black Lives Matter movement through the year 2020. Batool Ibrahim, president of the Black Student Union at UNL, has found strength through BLM and continues to advocate for change both on and off-campus. When responding to a question about the influences that the BLM movement has had on her, Ibrahim responded, “I started to really think about some of the experiences I’ve had here at UNL that have really been detrimental, and the fact that I couldn’t see that when it happened. It really kind of speaks to the layers of systematic and institutional racism” (Gayman 2020). It is people like Garza and Ibrahim that continue to make a difference here in Lincoln and across Nebraska as well. They continue the BLM movement and call for the rest of us to take action. 




References 


Bischof, Bayley. 2020. “Nebraska History Museum Working to Capture the State’s Black Lives Matter Movement.” Https://Www.1011now.Com. June 12, 2020. https://www.1011now.com/content/news/Nebraska-History-Museum-working-to-capture-the-states-Black-Lives-Matter-movement-571227891.html.


Dunker, Chris. 2016. “Black Lives Matter Co-Founder Speaks at UNL.” JournalStar.Com. February 17, 2016. https://journalstar.com/news/local/education/black-lives-matter-co-founder-speaks-at-unl/article_1df5df4a-7769-5c52-be06-1755388ca38f.html.


Gayman, Deann. 2020. “Black Student Union President Determined to Foster Change.” August 26, 2020. https://news.unl.edu/newsrooms/today/article/black-student-union-president-determined-to-foster-change/.


“George Floyd Protests in Nebraska.” 2020. In Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=George_Floyd_protests_in_Nebraska&oldid=990461456.