On Friday, I went to campus for the first time for the semester. The first thing that I noticed that for it being the middle of the day, there weren’t too many people walking around. This was really weird for me because I have been used to walking onto campus and seeing masses of people. The other strange thing to see was that the hammocks by the Union were taken down. That has typically been my favorite thing to do between classes, take my readings and go sit it one of the hammocks and listen to the fountain. Not anymore. Once I made it to Andrews, I was again shocked by how quiet it was. I walked by the Writing Center where I would go talk to my coworkers and friends between classes before and was met with a closed door and an empty room. Downstairs, there weren’t many students sitting around waiting for classes, just a couple here and there. Inside the classroom, there was no talking between the students because we were all sitting so far apart. Seeing everyone in masks has become a norm for me, but it was still strange to see so many.  Seeing all of this on-campus reminded me that everyone has their own thoughts and ideas about how things should be done during this time. Outside, there are some people that never take their mask off and others that rip it off as soon as they can. It reminded me that while we are all apart of the same community but we are all facing our own different battles. How each of us responds to this current crisis reflects our most inner beliefs and perspectives. We all have different ideologies. While some agree with Ronnie Green and believe that coming to campus was the right thing to do, there are others that don’t. As Hunter et al. mention in “Reifying the Maker as Humanist,” some of the most important work that is being done in the humanities right now is related to reclaiming history, especially for those who have been disenfranchised by it. With this in mind, we can frame the observations being made at UNL in terms of the historical context of the area and knowing that we have made some, but need to make much more progress toward equality. Because of the few people that I saw on this day across campus, one primary thing I saw was the lack of international students, who cannot afford (for the sake of their health or another reason) to be on campus. We are left with the historically white community that live nearby (or at least in the country). The observations across campus, when framed in this way by Hunter et al. allow us to see the important work that DH is doing, but that there is much more work to do.