For me, it helps when I am given a little bit of structure that I can then build off of, and based on this, I found that StoryMap was easier and more fun for me to use than GeoJSON or pen and paper. I think that each tool has its own benefits but the decision on what to use ultimately comes down to personal preference. StoryMap allows me to start with a basic framework, the default slideshow and allows for me to build off of it and make it my own unique presentation without having to build from the ground up. For the work that we are doing in this class, I found that StoryMap would be able to better suit my needs for conveying images, metadata, and a subsequent narrative.  StoryMap was easy to learn and in only a couple of minutes, I had a basic presentation drafted. The mapping feature was also simple and the ability to drag and click the pin was especially helpful.  GeoJSON on the other hand, was more difficult for me to learn and took me a much longer time to produce anything substantial. Despite this, I can see that there are certain projects that would benefit from GeoJSON and Github’s programs as it allows for more creative freedom. These two allow for the creator to build something fresh and new without the limited framework that StoryMap has. In this way, GeoJSON and pen and paper are able to foster more creative design.  Pen and paper are more accessible but just like the other two tools, are not for everyone. Even when I was in high school and would take art classes or would have to create drawings, I would tend to get too wrapped up in the details. I would try too hard to make it perfect. For this project, the drawing is meant to covey data and while a picture speaks 1000 words, my own drawing was unable to be sufficient enough to convey the message that I was trying to send. I want my viewer to notice the utter emptiness of downtown and while my drawing can be seen as having no people, that message is not as apparent as when working with StoryMap and GeoJSON/Github. Based on my preferences, and the project that I am working on, StoryMap would be my chosen tool but others may prefer the others. 


My pen and paper drawing of one of my images is able to eliminate some of the background information and present the true meaning that I saw in my photo: the utter emptiness of the street. During my observations, I saw cars but hardly any people, which left me with a strong feeling of being alone that the photograph by itself cannot convey. My drawing is able to push past that, and remove the cars and other filler information that goes against the feeling that I had that day on the street. Instead, the viewer can see the wide-open expanse of the road, the lonely sidewalk and the distant buildings that otherwise get ignored in a crowd of people.