Many Native American tribes have historically been located in the are now defined as Nebraska. These tribes included: the Arapaho, the Cheyenne, the Kansa, the Lakota and Dakota, the Missouria, the Omaha, the Otoe, the Pawnee, and the Ponca (“Nebraska Indian Tribes and Languages” n.d.). The land that Lincoln is currently situated on was at the convergence of several of these tribes. The areas surrounding Lincoln were originally the home of the Otoe, the Omaha, the Pawnee, and the Kansa. Looking more closely at Lincoln, the west side of town, including where the University of Nebraska – Lincoln is now, was originally Pawnee land (“NativeLand.Ca” n.d.). The Pawnee are considered to be the most populous tribe to live in the state, their land stretching through most of central Nebraska, and are also known to be the tribe that has occupied the area the longest. Some estimate that by 1800 CE there were over 10,000 Pawnee living in Nebraska (“The Pawnee and the Lakota Sioux” n.d.). Unfortunately, around this time is when Small Pox and other diseases began to spread through the population, reducing their numbers drastically. The 1830s proved especially difficult for the Pawnee. Some of their villages along the Loup River were being raided by the Lakota Sioux and then in 1833, the government reduced the four Pawnee tribal bands to one tribal entity and these bands were forced to cede their land south of the Platte River (“Pawnee (Tribe) | The Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture” n.d.). This area includes present-day Lincoln. In 1869, only three and a half decades later, the University of Nebraska – Lincoln was founded. By 1874, the Pawnee ceded the rest of their territory/reservation and moved to a reservation in Oklahoma (“Pawnee (Tribe) | The Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture” n.d.). European settlers during this time were inspired by the homes of Native Americans and built sod homes similar to the Earth huts created by the Pawnee. Today, the effects of the Pawnee and the other surrounding tribes are still felt. Corn, squash, and other crops that were originally cultivated by these tribes remain a key source of revenue for the state. While Lincoln itself does not have any Native American heritage sites, several are nearby including the Omaha and Winnebago reservations, the Genoa Indian School, and the Inner Maker Art village in Seward. 
Sources Cited: 
“NativeLand.Ca.” n.d. Native-Land.ca – Our Home on Native Land. Accessed October 27, 2020. https://native-land.ca/ (Links to an external site.).
“Nebraska Indian Tribes and Languages.” n.d. Accessed October 27, 2020. http://www.native-languages.org/nebraska.htm (Links to an external site.).
“Pawnee (Tribe) | The Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture.” n.d. Accessed October 27, 2020. https://www.okhistory.org/publications/enc/entry.php?entry=PA022 (Links to an external site.).
“The Pawnee and the Lakota Sioux.” n.d. Accessed October 27, 2020. https://www.nebraskastudies.org/en/1500-1799/emergence-of-historic-tribes/the-pawnee-the-lakota-sioux/ (Links to an external site.).