Even though I have been downtown several times in the last couple of months, in the context of this class, I assumed I would notice things that were similar to what I noticed on the UNL campus. From the moment I arrived downtown, however, I realized that downtown and the campus vary widely in their approach to the virus. Walking around outside, I noticed that most people had masks on, although many had them pulled down around their chin until they walked into their destination. There were a few people that didn’t wear masks at all and they did not appear to be stopped from entering wherever they pleased.  While some people have health conditions that prevent them from wearing a mask, in my mind people would still offer a disposable mask even if the person did not take it. In this way, I thought the mask-wearing regulations of downtown were more passive than they were active. Besides masks, one of the interesting things I noticed was the increased number of designated parking spots for to-go food. Most restaurants are offering  to-go and some were able to reserve one of the highly sought after downtown spots for their own to-go pickup. Among these, I saw grubhub and door dash pick-up signs which I had never seen (or maybe just never noticed) before the pandemic. It is reassuring to see that places are offering options for those that do not want to come inside. I entered a few different buildings while downtown including a restaurant and a bar and it was fascinating to see each place’s regulations. Everywhere that I went that served food or drink didn’t require that you wear a mask while seated but you needed to put one on before moving anywhere else, such as to go to the bathroom or to enter or exit. More concerning was at one of the bars in the Haymarket where such regulations were in place, and customers were doing a good job of following them, but where multiple employees had their masks pulled down under their chin as they served food or drinks. This raised a few red flags for me and made me wonder what we are not seeing behind the scenes, such as if the kitchen staff follows the regulations of the restaurant or bar. Overall, there are a lot more moving parts in downtown worthy of analysis.