I have used a few of these programs, specifically WordPress and Omeka, before in previous classes. Blogger and Flickr were new to me, however, which provided me with a different perspective into how they worked in relation to the other two platforms in which I already had experience with. Overall, all of these programs are excellent platforms to house different DH projects depending on the content being shared. 
Starting out, it appeared to me that while WordPress and Blogger were both sites created to house blogs, WordPress allows for more design that would be comparable to an actual website. Blogger seems primarily interested in the actual blog itself while WordPress made it a component of the overall site. Both are easy to use but I was drawn to the design options that WordPress allowed. Based on our readings on minimalist design, however, I think that Blogger would be better to create a minimalist blog where you could post the information without being muddled down by the design aspect. I didn’t find this aspect on Blogger, but with WordPress, users could also easily link to other programs. You could theoretically link your Blogger to your WordPress and make one the designed home site for the project while the other focused specifically on the blog. WordPress would also allow you to link to Flickr and Omeka which would also be beneficial when working with a large scale project that required multiple sites for the complete picture of information. 
Looking at Omeka, it reminded me of the same kind of information that was seen on the UNL Campus Archeology webpage; the metadata was more apparent than on some of the other programs such as Flickr. Campus Archeology put a title for each object, included a description, subject, creator, source, date, type as well as the image itself. Flickr included some of the same information but relied more on tags to be the primary search tool.  To me, Flickr would be a better program to use for large batches of images, where they need to be presented with the focus on the image. Because of this, UNL Campus Archeology would not be best to house on Flickr because the metadata is just as important as the image itself, you cannot fully understand the image without it being partnered with the metadata. However, for DH projects such as housing art collections, Flickr might be the superior tool for providing a gallery experience with the images that would allow them to be searched in many different ways based on the tags. 
I can see the individual importance of each platform and the context that it would best be used in and I am interested to see what combining several of these program s together in a large scale project might look like.